sql: Implement datediff (#19806)
MaterializeInc/materialize: doc/user/content/sql/functions/datediff.md

---
title: "datediff function"
description: "Determines the number of date part boundaries that are crossed between two expressions."
menu:
  main:
    parent: 'sql-functions'
---

The `datediff(datepart, start, end)`
function returns the number of `datepart` boundaries that are crossed between the two provided expressions.

## Signatures

Parameter | Type | Description
----------|------|------------
_datepart_ | [text](../../types) | The specific part of date or time that we operate on.
_start_ | [date](../../types), [time](../../types), [timestamp](../../types), [timestamptz](../../types) | Where we start measuring from.
_end_ | [date](../../types), [time](../../types), [timestamp](../../types), [timestamptz](../../types) | Where we measure until.

## Examples

This function returns the number of `datepart` _boundaries_ that are crossed.

```
SELECT datediff('millennia', '2000-12-31', '2001-01-01') as d;
  d
-----
  1
```

> Even though the difference between `2000-12-31` and `2001-01-01` is only a single day, we cross
> the millenium boundary from one date to the other, hence the above statement returns 1.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Even though the difference between `2000-12-31` and `2001-01-01` is a single day, a millennium boundary is crossed from one date to the other, so the result is `1`.
```

This function also considers leap years.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

To see how this function handles leap years:
```

```
SELECT datediff('day', '2004-02-28', '2004-03-01') as leap;
    leap
------------
     2

SELECT datediff('day', '2005-02-28', '2005-03-01') as non_leap;
  non_leap
------------
     1
```

> In the first statement when using the year `2004` (a leap year), the number of day boundaries we
> cross is 2. Whereas in the second statement when we use the year `2005`, we only cross 1 day boundary.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the statement that uses a leap year (`2004`), the number of day boundaries crossed is `2`. When using a non-leap year (`2005`), only `1` day boundary is crossed.
```
